<h1><strong>The Effects of Global Warming on Nature: An Overview</strong></h1>
<p>Climate change is a fact and it's affecting everyone, no matter where they live. The effects of global warming are already being felt and as the planet heats up, more and more negative impacts will become apparent. To understand the ways in which climate change is already changing nature, it&rsquo;s important to understand what causes it in the first place. <strong>Global warming</strong> results from the accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, such as carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4). The majority of human-related emissions of these gases take place through the use of fossil fuels for energy production and transportation. As a result, CO2 levels have risen approximately 40% since pre-industrial times with over half coming from just 18 countries.</p>
<h2>What causes global warming?</h2>
<p>To understand the causes of global warming, we first have to understand why the Earth is getting warmer in the first place. The Earth has an atmosphere that surrounds it like a bubble. This atmosphere is made up of gases (such as oxygen and nitrogen) and particles (such as dust, smog and gases from living things). The gases in the atmosphere serve as a blanket, protecting living things on the surface below from the dangerous radiation of space. Scientists have found that greenhouse gases, such as water vapor, carbon dioxide and methane, block some of the light that would otherwise be reflected back into space, warming the Earth. This is what is known as &ldquo;radiative forcing&rdquo;. Radiative forcing is the amount by which greenhouse gases increase the amount of heat reflected back into space by the atmosphere.</p>
<h2>Consequences of global warming</h2>
<p>As the Earth heats up, certain changes take place. Plants and animals migrate to new locations to find cooler habitats or adapt to the new climate. This means that many species will become extinct, or have their numbers greatly reduced. This in turn can have a knock-on effect on the <a href="https://www.eistria.com/en">food chain</a>, affecting humans as well. Insects, for instance, will become more numerous and pose a greater threat to crops and food supplies. Diseases that are associated with warmer temperatures, such as malaria and dengue fever, are expected to become more common.</p>
<h2>CO2 and climate change</h2>
<p>CO2 is the main greenhouse gas emitted by human activity. The increase in CO2 levels in the atmosphere is almost entirely due to human activities, such as the burning of fossil fuels. Most of the CO2 emitted by human activities stays in the atmosphere for a long time. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has reported that if we continue emitting CO2 at current rates, we can expect an increase in temperature of between 1.2 and 6.6&deg;C above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century. However, greenhouse gas emissions are not evenly distributed in the atmosphere, with the greatest concentrations found in tropical regions. As a result, most predictions of future climate change, including those made by the IPCC, are based on models that assume that global warming will mainly affect tropical regions.</p>
<h2>Methane and climate change</h2>
<p>Methane is a much more powerful greenhouse gas than CO2, but is generally found in much smaller concentrations. Human activities have resulted in the emission of large amounts of methane from natural sources such as peatlands and wetlands, as well as from livestock farming and the oil and gas industry. If greenhouse gases such as methane were the only substances affecting climate change, then it would be relatively easy to control the effects. However, our impact on the environment is not the only factor that determines the amount of methane in the atmosphere. Methane is also affected by other factors, including the level of solar activity and the concentration of other greenhouse gases. Solar activity is currently very low and there is little evidence of a strong recovery in the near future.</p>
<h2>Other greenhouse gases</h2>
<p>Beneath the levels of CO2 and methane that have been detected in the atmosphere is a layer of gases such as nitrous oxide (N2O), which are also important greenhouse gases. These other greenhouse gases have still not been detected in the atmosphere in sufficient concentrations to have a significant impact on global warming. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has reported that if we continue emitting CO2 at current rates, we can expect an increase in temperature of between 1.2 and 6.6&deg;C above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century. Some of the more recent studies investigating possible future impacts of climate change, including the Fourth Assessment Report of the IPCC (2007), predict a much lower increase in temperature.</p>
<h2>How much warming will result from greenhouse gas emissions?</h2>
<p>A significant amount of research has been conducted into how much warming we might expect to occur as a result of greenhouse gas emissions. The majority of studies predict a rise in temperature of between 1.5 and 4.5&deg;C by the end of the twenty-first century. However, some studies predict a lower increase in temperature, especially if <a href="https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/global-greenhouse-gas-emissions-data#:~:text=Global%20Emissions%20by%20Gas,-At%20the%20global&amp;text=Carbon%20dioxide%20(CO2)%3A,agriculture%2C%20and%20degradation%20of%20soils.">CO2 emissions</a> are reduced now. A smaller rise in temperature would lead to a less dramatic impact on ecosystems, including humans.</p>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>Climate change is real, it is happening now, and it is already having a significant impact on the environment. The most important thing that we can do to protect our environment is to reduce our CO2 emissions. We can also help to reduce the effects of climate change by reducing the amount of greenhouse gases that we emit into the atmosphere.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
